# v1.1.x series (current stable)

## v1.1.0 (23rd March 2026)

This major release upgrades our codebase to support more Python versions and
improve maintainability. This long overdue maintenance notably includes:

* Full support of Numpy 2. The development environment is now based on Python
  3.10.
* Critical fixes to the CKD database lookup functions, now offloaded to the new
  [AxsDB library](https://github.com/eradiate/axsdb/), which allow the safe use
  of recent xarray  versions. Before this change, the performance penalty
  incurred by using xarray 2025 or later would slow down computations to a point
  where Eradiate would become unusable. For more information about this
  performance issue, see the
  [AxsDB documentation](https://axsdb.readthedocs.io/en/stable/dev/interpolation.html#benchmarks).
* The update of our radiometric kernel to
  [Mitsuba v3.7.1](https://mitsuba.readthedocs.io/en/stable/release_notes.html#mitsuba-3-7-1).
  With this, we support Python 3.9 to 3.13.
* Changes to our dependency tree: we replace the graph management infrastructure
  of Hamilton, used in our post-processing, with a home-grown solution based on
  NetworkX, greatly simplifying our pipeline definitions; and we replace astropy
  with [Skyfield](https://github.com/skyfielders/python-skyfield), which has a
  lower footprint and a narrower scope.
* Addition of a polarized surface reflection model based on the work of
  [Maignan et al. (2009)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0034425709002430?via%3Dihub).

### Changed

* ⚠️ The radiometric kernel is upgraded to upstream Mitsuba v3.7.1
  ({ghpr}`531`). This has the following consequences:

  * When outputting Stokes vector components and variance, the variance product
    only contains data for the *I* component (the others are set to NaN).
  * The kernel log redirection feature was removed and the
    {mod}`eradiate.kernel.logging` module was deleted.
  * Expert interface users should now use the new `arectangle` shape plugin
    instead of `rectangle`. The latter has been modified to describe rectangles
    as triangulated meshes, which can be problematic as the native kd-tree used
    for double-precision ray intersections is lacking safeguards to guarantee
    that meshes are watertight: `arectangle` brings back the prior
    implementation of `rectangle`, which doesn't have these problems.
  * The {func}`mitsuba.load_dict`'s default behaviour has changed and performs
    optimizations that are generally not wanted within Eradiate. A new
    {func}`.mi_load_dict` wrapper disables these optimizations, preserving prior
    behaviour, and should be preferred to load Mitsuba objects in Eradiate.

* The {class}`.ParticleLayer` class's constructor now warns if the specified
  reference wavelength (default: 550 nm) is missing from the `w` coordinate of
  the aerosol optical property dataset ({ghpr}`530`).
* ⚠️ Astropy is replaced by [Skyfield](https://rhodesmill.org/skyfield/) for
  astronomical calculations ({ghpr}`532`). In practice, this applies to the
  {class}`.SolarIrradianceSpectrum` class.
* The documentation and default parameters of the Hapke BSDF have been updated
  ({ghpr}`536`).
* ⚠️ 🖥️ The development environment now uses Python 3.10 ({ghpr}`539`).
* 🖥️ The suite of system tests was redesigned to improve reliability
  ({ghpr}`517`). Plots can now be disabled for improved performance.
* ⚠️ 🖥️ Absorption database lookup is transferred to the
  [AxsDB library](https://github.com/eradiate/axsdb/) ({ghpr}`545`). This
  notably allows to register custom absorption databases through the
  {data}`.radprops.absdb_factory` factory instance.
* ⚠️ 🖥️ Post-processing pipelines now use a home-grown engine that replaces
  Hamilton ({ghpr}`551`). The underlying motivation is documented in the PR and
  pipeline engine design note.
* 🖥️ Updated all source code to use Pinttrs's new-style API ({ghpr}`557`). This
  change does not affect users.
* The {func}`.make_gaussian` function is transferred to a class method of
  {class}`.BandSRF` ({ghpr}`558`). The previous entry point is kept for
  compatibility.
* The {class}`.BandSRF` now has a `name` attribute and can be exported to an
  xarray DataArray ({ghpr}`558`).

### Added

* The {class}`.AstroObjectIllumination` class now has the additional factory
  alias `astroobject`, consistent with the associated Mitsuba plugin
  ({ghpr}`529`).
* Added the {class}`.MaignanBSDF` class, a polarized surface reflection model
  introduced by {cite:p}`Maignan2009PolarizedReflectance` ({ghpr}`534`).
* RNG seed sequence initialization can now be controlled by the user
  ({ghpr}`543`).
* 🖥️ The phase function of the {class}`.MolecularAtmosphere` class can now be
  forced to a user-defined value for debugging purposes ({ghpr}`550`).
* The {class}`.BandSRF` class now provides a method to get the associated band
  central wavelength ({ghpr}`560`).
* Band-weighted output variables now have a `w_srf` scalar coordinate that
  contains the central wavelength of the band ({ghpr}`560`).

### Fixed

* Several dependency caps have been removed ({ghpr}`539`): NumPy 2 is now
  supported, and recent xarray versions (2025+) are supported.
* Fixed a bug where the contents of the `ERADIATE_PATH` environment variable
  were not converted properly ({ghpr}`542`).
* Fixed a bug where, when processing simultaneously multiple measures with
  different SRFs, all kernel sensors were rendered at each iteration of the
  spectral loop, regardless of whether the sensor is active at the current
  spectral index ({ghpr}`555`).
